# GAIAboX Testbed Onboarding

GAIAboX Testbed Onboarding (Onboarding Process).

GAIAboX Testbed (Testbed).

> TODO: introduce guide

## Table of Content

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Premises](#premises)
- [Consultation](#consultation)
- [Enter](#enter)
- [Preparation](#preparation)
    - [Preparation Assistance](#preparation-assistance)
    - [Preparation End](#preparation-end)
- [Buildup](#buildup)
    - [Buildup Assistance](#buildup-assistance)
    - [Buildup End](#buildup-end)
- [Transfer](#transfer)
    - [Transfer End](#transfer-end)
- [Maintaining](#maintaining)
- [Onboarding Component Under Test (CUT)](#onboarding-eco-system)

*Table of Content "GAIAboX Testbed Onboarding"*.

---

## Introduction

**CUT**: Component Under Test.

### Roles

### Agent
#### Operator
#### Guide
### Component

#### Component Under Test

---

## Premises

Testbed **Guide** expects given **Generator** to be authorized to start the process of _Testbed-Onboarding_. So, someone is
acting on behalf ([prov:actedOnBehalfOf](https://www.w3.org/TR/2013/REC-prov-o-20130430/#actedOnBehalfOf)) another
Person and Organization it has to be verified, so Testbeds **Guides** are assured about **Generators** credential.

Given **Generator** is responsible for **all** inserted information. Testbed itself **DOES NOT** take care of content,
but **DOES** take care of structure (schema, model, etc.).

Given **Generators** editing takes place on a dedicated and _private_ repository (the **Generator** Repository)
and will be generated by given **guide**.

Given **Generators** editing will be done in **turtle**`.

> FUTURE: json-ld
> FUTURE: web frontend

Generated **content will never be public**.

---

## Consultation

The **Candidate** (Person, wich aim to become a **Generator**) need initial instruction.

---

## Enter

The Testbed Entrance Process .

1. To become a Testbed-CUT **Generator** you have to contact TODO:#me.
2. Requesting person gets a **TESTSUITE**-account.
3. The **Generators** self-disclosure (CUT-working-title, mail, phone, GitHub-account, etc.).
4. The **Generator** has to answer some questions related to Testbed-Onboarding.

Doing so, given answers will be evaluated and given result initiates and supports
the [Testbed Preparation Prozess](#preparation).

---

## Preparation

At ths point the [Testbed Entrance Prozess](#enter) is successfully finished.

**Generator** **MUST** find a unique _working-title_.

> Bob

So given **Generator** will work on file

```
  /es/my-eco-system/cut/gbx.testbed.es.ids.cut.bob.ttl
```

### Preparation "Repository Creation"

```
gbx.testbed.bob
```

will be generated by **Guide**.

```
gbx.testbed.bob.main        // branch "main"
gbx.testbed.bob.buildup     // branch "buildup"
```


### Preparation "Assistance"

The **Generator** needs instruction.

### Preparation "End"

Given Repository

```
gbx.testbed.bob
  /es/my-eco-system/cut
```

is ready to be edited by given *Generator*.

The _Preparation Process_ is finished.

---

## Buildup

### Buildup "Assistance"

The **Generator** needs help.

### Buildup "Work In Progress"

**Generator** works on branch `buildup`

```
gbx.testbed.bob.buildup  // branch "buildup"
```

### Buildup "Validation"

After given repository's revision and validation by given **Guide**, given CUT is in a good condition.

### Buildup "End"

Given repository will provide the basic information of intended test.

Status (current status _buildup_) alters to status CUT-**Candidate**.

The _Buildup Process_ is finished.

---

## Candidate

### Candidate "Assistance"

The **Generator** needs help.

### Candidate "Work In Progress"

**Generator** works on created branch `candidate`

```
gbx.testbed.bob.candidate  // branch "buildup"
```

### Candidate "Validation"

After given repository's revision and validation by given **Guide**, given CUT is in a good condition.

### Candidate "End"

Given repository will provide the basic information of intended test.

Status (current status _candidate_) alters to status CUT-**Transfer**.

The _Candidate Process_ is finished.

---

## Transfer

After merging into main-branch given CUT-**Candidate**

```
gbx.testbed.bob
  /es/my-eco-system/cut
```

...will be transferred to TESTBED (the main testing instance
making the CUT a real "Component Under Test").

> REM: only folder `/cut` is transferred. all other information will be **DROPPED**!!!

Status (currently status _CUT-**Candidate**_) alters to _CUT-**ready-for-test**_.

---

## Test

---